Add post (#42)
poliastro/poliastro.github.io: content/articles/2019-08-19-czml-extractor:-an-overview.md

Title: CZML Extractor: An overview
Date: 2019-08-19 15:00
Category: GSCOC
Tags: GSOC, GSOC19, poliastro

> slug: 2019-08-19-czml-extractor:-an-overview.md

Reviewer: I'd remove the `:` from the slug and filename, just in case

lang: en
Author: Eleftheria Chatziargyriou

As the proverb says "all good things must come to an end". Unfortunately, it's time
to bid adieu to the summer and have a look on what has been accomplished so far.

The CZML Extractor
------------------
This was undoubtedly the main and most time-consuming part of the project. The extractor
allows users to easily convert orbital data to CZML. You can find an overview of the
extractor's usage in the [User Guide](https://docs.poliastro.space/en/stable/user_guide.html)
or take a look in the more in-depth 
[Jupyter notebook tutorial](https://github.com/Sedictious/poliastro/blob/2c4355e50207470b18f31d8405ddc1f2c53c574b/docs/source/examples/CZML%20Tutorial.ipynb)

The Cesium Application
-----------------------
Since we need more parameters to accurately represent the data, we also need a
specific application to parse said parameters. For this reason, I worked on a 

> Cesium application that allows you to easily visualize the data. In actuality, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cesium application that allows you to easily visualize the data. At this moment,
```

there are two separate applications: one that runs remotely and one you can

> copy-paste directly into Cesium [Sandcastle](https://cesiumjs.org/Cesium/Build/Apps/Sandcastle/).

Reviewer: > there are two separate applications: one that...

And the other one? :)

I have added the instructions on how to run it in the [repo](https://github.com/poliastro/cesium-app),
where you can also find a few examples to get you started.

CZML3
-----
As I've mentioned in previous posts, the CZML packets were internally represented
by nested dictionaries. This complicated the code and made it generally uglier for 
many reasons (need for a "default" packet, need to specify the path of every parameter

> that was being added etc...). Fortunately, my mentor juanlu came up with a great 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that was being added etc...). Fortunately, my mentor Juanlu came up with a great 
```

:grin:

- [#721 Add 2D Scene support](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/721)
- [#730 Add updated IAU values for body radii](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/730)
- [#735 Update rotational elements](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/735)
- [#737 SpheroidLocation accepts poliastro bodies instead of spheroid parameters](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/737)
- [#739 Add ground track plotting](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/739)
- [#743 Allow groundtrack lead/trail time](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/743)
- [#746 Add angular speed and rotational period](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/746)
- [#753 Add initial CZML notebook tutorial](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/753)
- [#755 Add additional parameters for groundtracks](https://github.com/poliastro/poliastro/pull/755)

There is still a pending PR that will add pass tracking (finally). I'm currently trying to test the 
added functionality to ensure it is as bug-free as possible.

Special thanks
--------------
I'd like to thank everyone in the Open Atronomy community. I'd also like to give a special

> thanks to my mentor, juanlu, who helped make the whole GSoC experience even greater than I initially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thanks to my mentor, Juanlu, who helped make the whole GSoC experience even greater than I initially
```

> expected; He helped me get the proper background, gave helpful feedback and was very supportive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expected: he helped me get the proper background, gave helpful feedback and was very supportive
```

> and an all-around amazing person!

Reviewer: :heart:

What's next
-----------
I had a wonderful time and I'm certainly planning to go back and polish the project as well as add

> any extra functionalities. Who knows, maybe there are many more contributions yet to come 😉

Reviewer: And you can mention we will present part of this in the upcoming OSCW!
